CS355 Probability and Statistics in CS: Project 2 More Card Shuffling

In this assignment I was tasked to create a program that would simulate the shuffling of a 
deck of cards using two different methods, building more off of the Project 1 assignment we 
did earlier in the class. For this program we were told to work in groups and split up the 
work accordingly. I was grouped with Vaishak Menon, a classmate from UAB.

The first method we were asked to use wanted us to split the deck in half to produce two 
subdecks (1-26 and 27-52). Next, they asked us to pick the first card from either deck by 
using equal probability (50% chance to pick either subdeck) to determine which deck to pull
from. Once you reach the end of one of the decks, just append the remaing cards of the other 
deck to the end of the shuffeled deck. The assignment then asked us to answer some questions 
based off our results. This assignment wanted us to run this method on a 52 deck of cards and 
a 104 deck of cards.

The second method asked us to begin with a new deck of cards, and repeat the same method of 
splitting the deck into two subdecks. However, this method wanted us to use the probability 
of (num of cards in subdeck / total cards remaining) to determine the chance of picking each 
subdeck to pick a card from. Once you have choosen the subdeck you are to pull from, just take 
the top card from that subdeck to add to the shuffle. Once you reach the end of the deck, append 
the rest of the remaining cards to the end of the shuffle deck. The assignment then asked us to 
answer some questions based off our results. This assignment wanted us to run this method on 
a 52 deck of cards and a 104 deck of cards.

To see the questions that we were asked and to get more information about the program expectations
and calculations, please refer to Program II.pdf in this repository.

To run this program you might have to pip install python's "numpy.random" and "matplotlib.pyplot" 
library to get the program to function properly. I ran mine on VS Code however it shouldn't 
have any issues running on any other IDE, but hasn't been tested.